[libcudacxx] Stable abstraction for Blackwell work-stealing (PTX try_cancel) (#3671)
NVIDIA/cccl: docs/libcudacxx/extended_api/work_stealing.rst

   - It performs work-stealing dynamically: thread blocks that finish work sooner may do more work than thread blocks whose work takes longer.
   - It may cooperate with the GPU work-scheduler to respect work priorities and perform load-balancing.
   - It may have lower work-stealing latency than global memory atomics.

For better performance, extract the thread block prologue - i.e. code and data that is common to all thread blocks (e.g. initialization, __shared__ memory allocations, common constants loaded to shared memory, etc.) - and thread block epilogue (e.g. writing back shared memory to global memory) outside the lambda passed to this API (see example below).

**Mandates**:

   - ``ThreadBlockRank`` equals the rank of the thread block: ``1``, ``2``, or ``3`` for one-dimensional, two-dimensional, and three-dimensional thread blocks, respectively.

**Preconditions**:

>    - All threads of current thread-block call ``for_each_cancelled_block`` **exactly once**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - All threads of the current thread-block must call ``for_each_cancelled_block`` **exactly once**.
```

**Effects**:

>    - Invokes ``uf`` with ``dim3 == blockIdx``, then repeatedly attempts to cancel the launch of a current grid thread block, and:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Invokes ``uf`` with ``dim3 == blockIdx``, then repeatedly attempts to cancel the launch of another thread block in the current grid, and:
```

>       - on success, calls ``uf`` with that thread blocks ``blockIdx`` and repeats,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - on success, calls ``uf`` with that thread block's ``blockIdx`` and repeats,
```

>       - otherwise it failed to cancel the launch of a thread block and it returns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - or, if it failed to cancel the launch of another thread block, returns.
```

Author: I've slightly tweaked it and incorporated the suggestions.
Leaving this open cause I have not incorporated the leading "or, .." change.
The "otherwise" applies to "on success", so maybe a larger rephrasing is required.

Reviewer: New wording is better. LGTM!

Example
-------

This example shows how to perform work-stealing at thread-block granularity using this API.

.. code:: cuda

   // Before:

   #include <cuda/math>
   #include <cuda/try_cancel>
   __global__ void vec_add(int* a, int* b, int* c, int n) {
     // Extract common prologue outside the lambda, e.g.,
     // - __shared__ or global (malloc) memory allocation
     // - common initialization code
     // - etc.

     cuda::experimental::for_each_cancelled_block<1>([=](dim3 tb) {
       int idx = threadIdx.x + tb.x * blockDim.x;
       if (idx < n) {

>          c[idx] += a[idx] + b[idx];

Reviewer: Consider adding a note that `blockIdx` should not be accessed here.

       }
     });
     // Note: Calling for_each_cancelled_block<1> again from this
     // thread block exhibits undefined behavior.

     // Extract common epilogue outside the lambda, e.g.,
     // - write back shared memory to global memory
     // - external synchronization
     // - global memory deallocation (free)
     // - etc.
   }

   int main() {
    int N = 10000;
    int *a, *b, *c;
    cudaMallocManaged(&a, N * sizeof(int));
    cudaMallocManaged(&b, N * sizeof(int));

>     cudaMallocManaged(&c, N * sizeof(int));

Reviewer: Please free the allocated memory.

Author: Its done below, see `cudaFree` calls.

.. _libcudacxx-extended-api-work-stealing:

Work stealing
=============

In header file ``<cuda/for_each_canceled>``:

.. code:: cuda

   namespace cuda {

       template <int ThreadBlockRank = 3, typename UnaryFunction = ..unspecified..>
       __device__ void for_each_canceled_block(UnaryFunction uf);

   } // namespace cuda

On devices with compute capability 10.0 or higher, it may leverage hardware acceleration.

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion: I would put this note after the API explanation.

This API is mainly intended to implement work-stealing at thread-block level granularity.
When compared against alternative work distribution techniques like `grid-stride loops <https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/cuda-pro-tip-write-flexible-kernels-grid-stride-loops/>`__, which distribute load statically, or against other dynamic work distribution techniques using global memory concurrency, the main advantages of this API over these alternatives are:

>    - It performs work-stealing dynamically: thread blocks that finish work sooner may do more work than thread blocks whose work takes longer.

Reviewer: Remark: Can we consistently spell it `thread blocks` or `thread-blocks`?

   - It may cooperate with the GPU work-scheduler to respect work priorities and perform load-balancing.
   - It may have lower work-stealing latency than global memory atomics.

For better performance, extract the shared thread block prologue and epilog outside the lambda, and re-use it across thread-block iterations:

  - Prologue: thread-block initialization code and data that is common to all thread blocks, e.g., ``__shared__`` memory allocation, their initialization, etc.
  - Epilogue: thread-block finalization code that is common to all thread blocks, e.g., writing back shared memory to global memory, etc.

**Mandates**:

   - ``ThreadBlockRank`` equals the rank of the thread block: ``1``, ``2``, or ``3`` for one-dimensional, two-dimensional, and three-dimensional thread blocks, respectively.

>    - ``is_invokable_r_v<UnaryFunction, void, dim3>`` is true.

Reviewer: I am not fluent in standardese, but do we need the `is true`?
```suggestion
   - ``is_invokable_r_v<UnaryFunction, void, dim3>``.
```

**Preconditions**:

   - All threads of the current thread-block shall call ``for_each_canceled_block`` **exactly once**.

**Effects**:

   - Invokes ``uf`` with ``blockIdx``, then repeatedly attempts to cancel the launch of another thread block in the current grid, and:

      - on success, calls ``uf`` with that thread block's ``blockIdx`` and repeats,
      - otherwise, it failed to cancel the launch of a thread block and it returns.

Example
-------

This example shows how to perform work-stealing at thread-block granularity using this API.

.. code:: cuda

   // Before:

   #include <cuda/math>
   #include <cuda/for_each_canceled>
   __global__ void vec_add(int* a, int* b, int* c, int n) {
     // Extract common prologue outside the lambda, e.g.,
     // - __shared__ or global (malloc) memory allocation
     // - common initialization code
     // - etc.

>      cuda::for_each_canceled_block<1>([=](dim3 block_idx) {
>        int idx = threadIdx.x + block_idx.x * blockDim.x;
>        // assert(block_idx == blockIdx); // May fail!

Reviewer: Suggestion: I am not sure the assertion is the best way to transport that message. Maybe:
```suggestion
     cuda::for_each_canceled_block<1>([=](dim3 block_idx) {
       // block_idx may be different than the built-in blockIdx variable
       int idx = threadIdx.x + block_idx.x * blockDim.x;
```

Author: ```suggestion
     cuda::for_each_canceled_block<1>([=](dim3 block_idx) {
       // block_idx may be different than the built-in blockIdx variable, that is:
       // assert(block_idx == blockIdx); // may fail!
       // so we need to use "block_idx" consistently inside for_each_canceled:
       int idx = threadIdx.x + block_idx.x * blockDim.x;
```

Reviewer: LGTM!

       if (idx < n) {
         c[idx] += a[idx] + b[idx];
       }
     });
     // Note: Calling for_each_canceled_block<1> again from this
     // thread block exhibits undefined behavior.

     // Extract common epilogue outside the lambda, e.g.,
     // - write back shared memory to global memory
     // - external synchronization
     // - global memory deallocation (free)
     // - etc.
   }

   int main() {
    int N = 10000;
    int *a, *b, *c;
    cudaMallocManaged(&a, N * sizeof(int));
    cudaMallocManaged(&b, N * sizeof(int));
    cudaMallocManaged(&c, N * sizeof(int));
    for (int i = 0; i < N; ++i) {
      a[i] = i;
      b[i] = 1;
      c[i] = 0;
    }

>     int tpb = 256;
>     int bpg = cuda::ceil_div(N, tpb);

Reviewer: I am a huge fan of `const`. Also, let's use slightly more descriptive names in examples:
```suggestion
    const int threads_per_block = 256;
    const int blocks = cuda::ceil_div(N, threads_per_block);
```
(I am not sure `blocks_per_grid` helps, since we only have one grid)
